#summary HoudahFoundation: framework overview.

= HoudahFoundation =

The HoudahFoundation framework builds upon and extends Apple’s 
WebObjects Foundation framework. As such it also relies on the JDK’s core 
libraries. 

The WebObjects Foundation framework provides a set collection types 
(NSArray, NSDictionary, ...). The HoudahFoundation has utility methods to 
perform common operations on these types. There are also utility methods 
that apply to core JDK types (String, Integer, ...). Anything you may want to 
do to a collection type (transformation, persistence, ...) is very likely to be 
already taken care of by one of these utility classes. 

The HoudahFoundation framework implements a large collection of 
formatter objects. Formatters extend from java.text.Format. They allow the 
often bidirectional transformation between objects and their String 
representation. These operations are referred to as “parsing” and 
“formatting”. We leave it up to the JavaDoc to document each individual 
formatter. 

An object of special interest in the HoudahFoundation framework is the 
KeyFormatter class. Despite what its name might suggest, this is not a 
formatter. It rather is a couple made up of a key path (c.f. 
NSKeyValueCodingAdditions) and a formatter. Often times when displaying 
an object we want to say: “follow that key path and then format the value at 
its end”. This operation can be described using a KeyFormatter. The actual 
formatter wrapping this operation is called KeyFormatterFormatter. It allows 
for the applying of a KeyFormatter or a series thereof to an object. A 
KeyFormatterFormatter may be used anywhere a formatter is expected for 
formatting a value. 

Special attention should be given to the Delegate class. It allows for the 
implementation in the Houdah frameworks of the delegate pattern. This 
pattern is very common in the WebObjects frameworks. The Delegate
implementation expects the publisher of a delegate API to declare a Java 
interface comprising all the methods the delegate could possibly be expected 
to implement. This Java interface should be thought of as an “informal 
protocol”. A delegate is not required to implement all of the interface’s 
methods. Consequently the delegate need not (and should not) be declared as 
implementing the interface. It needs only to match the method signature for 
the calls it is interested in. The master object will call upon the delegate where 
possible, and drop back to default behavior in all other cases.  