#summary HoudahEOControl: framework overview.

= HoudahEOControl =

The HoudahEOControl framework builds upon Apple’s EOControl 
framework as well as upon the HoudahFoundation framework. It 
intentionally does not rely on the EOAccess framework. Indeed the EOAccess 
layer is only one of several possible persistence layers EOControl may work 
with. Having a business layer dependant on EOAccess would introduce 
assumptions as to which persistence layer is used. Most notably such a 
business layer could no longer be used in the context of JavaClient 
applications where persistence is handled by the EODistribution framework. 
Following this logic, the ControlUtilities class appears as the most important 
class of the framework. It is in a way a sibling of Apple’s EOUtilities class. It 
actually re-implements all of EOUtilities’ methods that could be written 
without a dependency on the EOAccess layer. To this it adds a set of its own 
utility methods. You will find yourself using this class quite often: you should 
prefer it to EOUtilities in your business layer so as to prevent a dependency 
on the access layer. 

The bulk of the HoudahEOControl code is made of custom qualifiers. 
Qualifiers describe criteria used to restrict the selection of objects. The 
WebObject frameworks provide a set of frequently used qualifiers: 
EOKeyValueQualifier, EOKeyComparisonQualifier, EOAndQualifier, 
EOOrQualifier and EONotQualifier. The HoudahEOControl framework adds 
quite a few custom qualifiers to this set. These are best documented by their 
respective JavaDoc. These qualifiers are meant as actual useful additions to 
the frameworks. They however also serve as examples and starting point for 
you to implement your own. 

The ChangeNotificationCenter and related classes allow for caching derived 
values that are computed at display time. The owner of the cache may register 
for notifications of changes to values the cache derives from.